# Rating Players in T20 Cricket Using Machine Learning

## Intoduction
This project aims to develop a new performance indicator for T20 cricket players based on records using a large amount of data available on the internet and machine learning algorithms. Instead of relying solely on traditional performance indicators such as batting average, batting strike rate, and bowling economy, this project uses machine learning techniques to identify the roles of T20 players and determine the relative importance of various features for each role.

The project involves web scraping, data preprocessing, feature scaling, K-Means clustering, supervised and unsupervised learning, and other machine learning techniques. The project's main findings and outcomes are presented in CSV files and Jupyter notebooks.

## Repository Structure
The repository is structured as follows:

### CSV Files

* web Scraping - CSV files generated by web scraping
* Files used in Clustering and ML analysis - files after preliminary analysis, with preliminary metrics and Rank, and KPI extraction
* Pre Processing files for allRounder - files to analyze the results of ICC TOP 10 All-Time All-Rounders
* Results - all the results/outcomes of this research are stored in CSV files.

### CODE Files

* webscraping.ipynb - file used for web scraping
* Batter and Bowler - folders containing files used for batters and bowlers, respectively
* Top10ICC_allRounder_analysis.ipynb - file used for the analysis of ICC TOP 10 All-Time All-Rounders
* Failed chapters - folders containing files for self-organizing maps and neural network analysis
* classification_%_% - files containing clustering and classification for both bowlers and batters
* EDA_batters.ipynb and EDA_Bowlers.ipynb - files containing exploratory data analysis and KPI extraction for batters and bowlers, respectively.

## Conclusion
The main conclusion of this project is that rating individuals in team sports, especially T20 cricket, is a complex and challenging task. While traditional performance indicators such as batting and bowling averages reveal a great deal about a player's performance, they are not sufficient for the shortest format of the game with a less number of balls. Instead, machine learning techniques can be used to develop new performance indicators based on a player's roles, KPIs, and other features. This project provides several insights and findings on how to apply machine learning techniques to rate T20 cricket players.

## Dependencies
This project uses several Python packages and libraries, including:

* pandas
* numpy
* scikit-learn
* matplotlib
* seaborn
* beautifulsoup4
